then Jared bail that is Gideon and all
the people who were with him rose early
and encamped beside the well of Herod so
that the camp of the Midianites was on
the north side of them by the hill of
Marin in the valley and the Lord said to
Gideon the people who are with you are
too many for me to give the Midianites
into their hands lest Israel claimed
glory for itself against me saying my
own hand has saved me
now therefore proclaim in the hearing of
the people say whoever is fearful and
afraid let him turn and depart at once
from Mount Gilead and 22,000 of the
people returned and ten thousand
remained but the Lord said to Gideon the
people are still too many bring them
down to the water and I will test them
for you then then it will be that of
whom I say to you this one shall go with
you the same shall go with you and of
whom ever I say to you this one shall
not go with you the same shall not go so
he brought the people down to the water
and the Lord said to Gideon everyone who
laps from the water with his tongue as a
dog laps
usual set apart by himself likewise
everyone who gets down on his knees to
drink and the number of those who left
putting their hand to their mouth was
300 men but all the rest of the people
got down on their knees to drink water
then the Lord said to Gideon by the
three hundred men who left I will save
and deliver the Midianites into your
hand let all the other people go every
man to his place
[Music]
so the people took provisions and their
trumpets in their hands and he sent away
all the rest of Israel every man to his
tent and retained those 300 men now the
camp of Midian was below him in the
valley it happened on the same night
that the Lord said to him arise go down
against the camp for I have delivered it
into your hand but if you are afraid to
go down go down to the camp with purely
your servant and you shall hear what
they say and afterward your hands shall
be strengthened to go down against the
camp then he went down with purrr his
servant to the outpost of the armed men
who were in the camp now the Midianites
and Amalekites all the people of the
east were lying in the valley as
numerous as locusts and their camels
were without number as the sand by the
seashore in multitude and when Gideon
had come there was a man telling a dream
to his companion I have had a dream to
my surprise a loaf of barley bread
tumbled into the camp of Midian it came
to a tent and struck its soul that it
fell and overturned and the tent
collapsed this is nothing else but the
sword of Gideon
the son of joash a man of Israel
into his hand God has delivered Midian
and the whole camp and so it was when
Gideon heard the telling of the dream
and its interpretation that he worshiped
he returned to the camp of Israel and
said arise where the Lord has delivered
the camp of Midian into your hand he
divided the three hundred men into three
companies and he put a trumpet into
every man's hand with empty pitchers and
torches inside the pitchers look at me
and do likewise watch and when I come to
the edge of the camp you shall do as I
do when I blow the trumpet I and all who
are with me then you also blow the
trumpets on every side of the whole camp
and say the sword of the Lord and of
Gideon so Gideon and the hundred men who
were with him came to the outpost of the
camp at the beginning of the middle
watch just as they opposed to the mark
and they blew the trumpets and broke the
pictures that were in their hands and
the three companies blew the trumpets
and broke the pitchers they held the
torches in their left hands and the
trumpets and their right hands for
blowing and they cried
stood in his place all around the camp
and whole army ran and cried out and
fled
300 blew the trumpets the Lord said
every man's sword against his companion
throughout the whole camp and the army
fled to beth acacia toward zero as far
as the borders of Abel Netherland
by Tabitha and the men of Israel
gathered together from NAFTA lie
Asher and all Manasseh and pursued the
Midianites then Gideon sent messengers
throughout all the mountains of Ephraim
come down against the Midianites and
seize from them the watering places as
far as Beth Farrah and the Jordan then
all the men of the frame gathered
together and seized the watering places
as far as Beth Bearer and the Jordan and
they captured two princes of the
Midianites Arab and Zia
they killed Aaron at the rock of Odin
and zib they killed the winepress of Zia
they pursued Midian and brought the
heads of Oh Reb and Zia to Gideon
on the other side of the jaw
you